## Brussels Airport

[Brussels Airport](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brussels_Airport) marks the start of Julius’ journey out of New York City and into Europe. The airport is not particularly large, but it is the 21st busiest airport in Europe.[^1] It is located about 5 miles from the city center and consists of one main terminal with multiple levels. While rarely mentioned explicitly in the novel, the airport plays an important part in Julius’ journey. On Julius’ flight to Brussels, he meets a woman named Dr. Maillotte, a doctor who trained in Louvain (a smaller town in Belgium), and worked as a surgeon not only in Brussels, but cities in the United States like New York and Philadelphia. Based on his perception of Dr. Maillotte, Julius begins to form his first impressions of before he even touches down in Brussels.

Immediately after Julius informs Dr. Maillotte that he is Nigerian, she begins to spout off on how she believes Nigerians to be generally “arrogant” (Cole 88). This brief interaction begins to warp Julius’ perspective of Brusselaars[^2] as a more inherently racist group of citizens. Additionally, Julius learns more about the prejudices of Brusselaars from Mayken, the woman who picks him up from the Brussels airport. Mayken begins the car ride with a snide comment about the racial breakdown of the city, stating “the original idea of Brussels...was that it should be equally Flemish and Walloon. Of course, it’s not that way anymore...now it is ninety-five percent Walloon and other French speakers, one percent Flemish, and four percent Arab and African” (96).

The differing perceptions of minority groups by the people of these two distinctive cities is at the forefront of Julius’ mind for the rest of the trip as a result of these interactions. After meeting Farouq in the Internet cafe and getting to know him, Julius realizes the full extent of the discrimination against Farouq and other Arab citizens. While the people of New York City do maintain their own prejudices, Julius notes the incredible discrimination that Arabs receive in Brussels, writing “what Farouq got on the trams wasn’t a quick suspicious glance. It was a simmering, barely contained fear” (106). While Julius does notice multiple moments of racism throughout the novel, he begins to look out for these particular moments more distinctly because of his conversations with Dr Maillotte.

The airports in this novel are extremely important to Julius’ character, as they bridge these two cities together, not only physically, but characteristically as well. Dr. Maillotte has lived in both Brussels and New York, and offers a connection between the places through her character. Additionally, both Dr. Maillotte and Mayken force Julius to examine the cities in a new light, a perspective he would not have received had he not visited these airports.

[^1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brussels_Airport
[^2]: The name for citizens of Brussels.
