## Cafe in Grand Sablon

Julius begins to grow restless after spending weeks in Brussels without any friends or family, and so he begins to seek out new places to distract himself. He visits a cafe in Grand Sablon, a historic district in the middle of Brussels. While he doesn’t reference a specific cafe, the neighborhood is fairly wealthy, and has a range of residencies, stores, and tourist attractions. Julius describes the cafe to look fairly old, either as a result of time or an aesthetic decision, and the cafe maintains a naval theme with paintings of old ships on the walls. Just before coming to the cafe, Julius complained about his lack of social connection in Brussels, the cafe serves as an outlet for two unexpected connections. 

While sitting in the cafe, the waitress who brings Julius his coffee stops at his table to converse with him, and Julius is taken aback at first, as “she set the coffee down and, to my surprise, she herself sat for a moment at my table” (109). Julius later notes that she is very attractive, in her twenties, and boasting “heavy-lidded eyes and a winning smile” (109). Given that he notices that after she first sits down, the surprise at her visit likely comes from Julius’ previous experiences in New York. Julius is familiar with employees in a bigger city who tend to remove themselves from customers and focus their attention entirely on their business. This small town aspect of Brussels takes Julius aback, and he is not immediately ready to converse with the stranger.

Yet once Julius settles his bill and leaves the cafe, he begins talking to another female stranger within minutes of avoiding serious conversation with a different stranger. This new woman is considerably older and has heavy circles around her eyes. He continues talking with the woman as they walk down the street under his umbrella, and by the end of their interaction, they have sex in her hotel room before separating and never seeing each other again.

Julius’ interactions with two very different women probe at another facet of his personality: his introversion. While he does reach out to many people he meets in the novel, he rarely mentions his friends, and he never spends time with people he considers friends outside of Professor Saito, who he routinely visits at his home. Has New York City conditioned Julius to be so reserved, or is his introversion simply a function of his personality? He is able to reach out to a complete stranger on the street and sleep with her, so is he able to adapt to his surroundings, or could Brussels be a better fit for his social personality?
