## The Internet and Telephone Shop

Julius begins visiting an Internet Cafe in an attempt to do some research to find his grandmother, Magdalena Müller. This cafe is not necessarily based off of a real place (or at least the name of a real place is not given), but from Julius’ descriptions of the cafe we can visualize vaguely what the cafe might look like. In a “drab Brussels neighborhood,” the shop is on the “ground floor of a narrow building,” and holds a row of booths with phones and computers (101, 103).

Julius visits the shop multiple times, and on the second visit he uncharacteristically introduces himself to the employee working the register. This man is Farouq, an Arab employee who studies multiple languages and constantly furthers his intellect through study. Eventually Julius and Farouq begin to talk, not only in the shop, but outside of Farouq’s work as well.

From Julius’ interactions with Farouq, not only does he learn more about the city of Brussels and the people living there, but he also learns something about how his character functions differently in this city. When he visits this district of Brussels, his somewhat elitist attitude makes him assume that he will not find anyone at his intellectual level, much less in an Internet Cafe. Julius considers himself to be a scholar, and seems to have more confidence in New York City as a place for intellectuals, as he claims “I tried to align the drab Brussels neighborhood...with the smiling, serious-faced thinker sitting in front of me. What had I expected? Not this. A man who works in a shop, yes...but not this: the crisp, self-certain intellectual language” (103). Farouq’s knowledge impresses him, and catches him off guard. But even as Julius realizes an intellectual equal, he still attempts to cut him down and assert his superiority, even if his attempts are subtle. He repeatedly notes corrections to Farouq’s speech to himself, “I thought I should correct his slightly inaccurate quotation of Meir. But I was unsure of my ground” (105). Regardless of how true his assesment is, Julius maintains the need to be the smartest person in the room. While Farouq may not be a doctor like Julius, he still challenges Julius’ intellect and threatens him, so much so that Julius must cut him down mentally.

The Internet and Telephone shop raises interesting questions about Julius’ intellect. He holds assumptions about people from cities other than New York about their presumed intelligence, and even when he is proven incorrect, still attempts to perpetuate those assumptions himself. Julius is smart, but can he be trusted as a reliable narrator to convey other’s intellect, or does he prioritize his own image and ego regardless of the situation? Given his own pride, does he view Brussels as a place up to his intellectual level enough so that he could live there, or is New York the only place an academic like him can survive?
